apps/docs/docs/resources/downloads.md, before:

---
id: downloads
title: Resources & Downloads
sidebar_label: Downloads
---

## Overview

This page provides access to downloadable resources, templates, and reference
materials for Phoenix Rooivalk stakeholders.

:::info Access Levels

Some resources may require authorization. Contact the project administrator for
access to restricted materials.

:::

---

## Executive Materials

### Presentations

| Resource                | Format   | Description                   | Access     |
| ----------------------- | -------- | ----------------------------- | ---------- |
| **Investor Pitch Deck** | PDF/PPTX | Full investor presentation    | Restricted |
| **Technical Overview**  | PDF      | System architecture summary   | Public     |
| **Demo Day Slides**     | PPTX     | Soonami Cohort 8 presentation | Restricted |
| **One-Pager**           | PDF      | Executive summary single page | Public     |

### Documents

| Resource                   | Format | Description                      | Access                                                      |
| -------------------------- | ------ | -------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------- |
| **Executive Summary**      | PDF    | Investor-ready overview          | [View Online](../executive/investor-executive-summary)      |
| **12-Month Business Plan** | PDF    | Operational roadmap              | [View Online](../business/12-month-business-plan)           |
| **Early Spec & Q&A**       | PDF    | Plain-English technical overview | [View Online](../executive/early-development/early-spec-qa) |

---

## Technical Documentation

### Specifications

| Resource                 | Format  | Description                | Access                                                    |
| ------------------------ | ------- | -------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------- |
| **RKV-M Specifications** | PDF     | Interceptor platform specs | [View Online](../technical/hardware/rkv-m-specifications) |
| **ML Training Plan**     | PDF     | Model training methodology | [View Online](../technical/ml-training/ml-training-plan)  |
| **System Block Diagram** | PNG/SVG | High-level architecture    | Restricted                                                |

### Datasheets

| Resource               | Format | Description                      | Access      |
| ---------------------- | ------ | -------------------------------- | ----------- |
| **SkySnare Consumer**  | PDF    | Consumer product datasheet       | Coming Soon |
| **AeroNet Enterprise** | PDF    | Enterprise solution datasheet    | Coming Soon |
| **Edge Node Specs**    | PDF    | NVIDIA Jetson Orin configuration | Coming Soon |
| **Sensor Suite**       | PDF    | Detection system specifications  | Coming Soon |

---

## Templates & Forms

### Application Templates

| Resource                     | Format | Description                     | Access                                                               |
| ---------------------------- | ------ | ------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **CUAS Sandbox Application** | DOCX   | Canada DND application template | [View Draft](../business/applications/cuas-sandbox-2026-application) |
| **SBIR Phase I Template**    | DOCX   | Standard SBIR proposal format   | Coming Soon                                                          |
| **DASA Submission Template** | DOCX   | UK DASA proposal format         | Coming Soon                                                          |

### Operational Templates

| Resource                       | Format | Description                   | Access      |
| ------------------------------ | ------ | ----------------------------- | ----------- |
| **Mission Planning Checklist** | PDF    | Pre-flight checklist          | Coming Soon |
| **Incident Report Form**       | DOCX   | Post-engagement documentation | Coming Soon |
| **Maintenance Log**            | XLSX   | Equipment tracking template   | Coming Soon |

---

## Calendar Files

### ICS Downloads

Subscribe to project calendars for automatic sync:

| Calendar                      | Format | Description                  | Download    |
| ----------------------------- | ------ | ---------------------------- | ----------- |
| **Opportunities & Deadlines** | ICS    | Funding deadlines and events | Coming Soon |
| **Development Milestones**    | ICS    | Sprint and release schedule  | Coming Soon |
| **Team Meetings**             | ICS    | Recurring meeting schedule   | Coming Soon |

See [Project Calendar](../operations/calendar/project-calendar) for subscription
instructions.

---

## Reference Materials

### Standards & Compliance

| Resource                       | Format | Description                 | Access                                       |
| ------------------------------ | ------ | --------------------------- | -------------------------------------------- |
| **sUAS Program Documentation** | PDF    | DHS BCF-T-G-2 guide         | [View Online](./suas-program-documentation)  |
| **Compliance Framework**       | PDF    | Regulatory requirements     | [View Online](../legal/compliance-framework) |
| **FAA Part 107 Summary**       | PDF    | Drone operation regulations | External                                     |
| **ASTM F963 Overview**         | PDF    | Consumer safety standards   | External                                     |

### Industry Reports

| Resource                  | Format | Description          | Access     |
| ------------------------- | ------ | -------------------- | ---------- |
| **C-UAS Market Analysis** | PDF    | Industry landscape   | Restricted |
| **Competitor Matrix**     | XLSX   | Competitive analysis | Restricted |
| **Technology Roadmap**    | PDF    | Industry trends      | Restricted |

---

## Media Kit

### Logos & Branding

| Resource                  | Format  | Description           | Access      |
| ------------------------- | ------- | --------------------- | ----------- |
| **Phoenix Rooivalk Logo** | SVG/PNG | Primary logo files    | Coming Soon |
| **SkySnare Logo**         | SVG/PNG | Consumer brand logo   | Coming Soon |
| **AeroNet Logo**          | SVG/PNG | Enterprise brand logo | Coming Soon |
| **Brand Guidelines**      | PDF     | Usage and style guide | Coming Soon |

### Images & Diagrams

| Resource                        | Format  | Description               | Access      |
| ------------------------------- | ------- | ------------------------- | ----------- |
| **System Architecture Diagram** | PNG/SVG | Technical overview visual | Coming Soon |
| **Product Renders**             | PNG     | 3D product visualizations | Coming Soon |
| **Deployment Scenarios**        | PNG     | Use case illustrations    | Coming Soon |

---

## Video Resources

### Demonstrations

| Resource                | Duration | Description              | Access      |
| ----------------------- | -------- | ------------------------ | ----------- |
| **System Overview**     | 3 min    | Introduction video       | Coming Soon |
| **Technical Deep Dive** | 15 min   | Architecture walkthrough | Restricted  |
| **Demo Day Recording**  | 10 min   | Soonami presentation     | Restricted  |
| **Field Test Footage**  | 5 min    | Prototype testing        | Restricted  |

---

## Software & Tools

### Development Resources

| Resource                   | Format | Description           | Access      |
| -------------------------- | ------ | --------------------- | ----------- |
| **API Documentation**      | HTML   | Integration reference | Coming Soon |
| **SDK Package**            | ZIP    | Developer toolkit     | Restricted  |
| **Simulation Environment** | Docker | Testing sandbox       | Restricted  |

---

## How to Request Access

### Restricted Materials

For access to restricted materials:

1. **Email**: Contact project administrator
2. **Subject**: "Resource Access Request - [Resource Name]"
3. **Include**:
   - Your name and organization
   - Purpose for access
   - Specific resources needed

### NDA Requirements

Some materials require a signed Non-Disclosure Agreement:

- Investor pitch deck
- Technical specifications
- Competitive analysis
- Source code/SDK

---

## Download Instructions

### PDF Documents

1. Click the download link
2. Document opens in browser or downloads automatically
3. For restricted files, enter provided password

### Calendar Files (ICS)

1. Download the ICS file
2. Import into your calendar application:
   - **Google Calendar**: Settings > Import & Export
   - **Apple Calendar**: File > Import
   - **Outlook**: File > Open & Export > Import

### Large Files

Files over 100MB are hosted separately. Contact administrator for access
credentials.

---

## Version History

| Date     | Update                 | Affected Resources |
| -------- | ---------------------- | ------------------ |
| Nov 2025 | Initial release        | All documents      |
| Dec 2025 | CUAS application draft | Applications       |
| Q1 2026  | Datasheets added       | Technical docs     |

---

## Contact

For questions about resources or access:

| Type                    | Contact                         |
| ----------------------- | ------------------------------- |
| **General Inquiries**   | info@phoenixrooivalk.com        |
| **Technical Documents** | engineering@phoenixrooivalk.com |
| **Investor Materials**  | investors@phoenixrooivalk.com   |

---

_Resources are updated regularly. Check back for new materials. © 2025 Phoenix
Rooivalk. All rights reserved._

Commit message:

feat(docs): add gamification system and PDF export
Add comprehensive documentation engagement features:
- Reading progress tracking with localStorage persistence
- Achievement system with 20+ badges across 4 categories
- Learning paths for guided documentation journeys
- Feedback widget for document ratings
- Your Progress page (/your-progress) for tracking
- Navbar progress link with achievement badge

PDF export improvements:
- Enhanced print CSS for clean PDF output
- Instructions added to Downloads page
- Print-optimized styling hides nav elements
- Link URLs shown in printed output

Technical changes:
- New Gamification component directory with React hooks
- gamification.css with comprehensive styling
- Updated docusaurus.config.ts with progress links
- Enhanced custom.css print media queries

apps/docs/docs/resources/downloads.md, after:

---
id: downloads
title: Resources & Downloads
sidebar_label: Downloads
---

## Overview

This page provides access to downloadable resources, templates, and reference
materials for Phoenix Rooivalk stakeholders.

:::info Access Levels

Some resources may require authorization. Contact the project administrator for
access to restricted materials.

:::

---

## Export Documentation to PDF

You can save any documentation page as a PDF for offline reading or printing.

### Browser Print Method (Recommended)

1. Navigate to the page you want to save
2. Press `Ctrl+P` (Windows/Linux) or `Cmd+P` (Mac)
3. Select "Save as PDF" as the printer destination
4. Click "Save" to download the PDF

### Print-Optimized Styling

Our documentation includes print-optimized CSS that:
- Removes navigation elements (sidebar, navbar)
- Optimizes text for printing
- Preserves code block formatting
- Maintains table structure

:::tip Quick Export

For best results when printing multiple pages:
1. Use Chrome or Firefox
2. Set margins to "Default" or "Minimum"
3. Enable "Background graphics" for diagrams and icons

:::

---

## Executive Materials

### Presentations

| Resource                | Format   | Description                   | Access     |
| ----------------------- | -------- | ----------------------------- | ---------- |
| **Investor Pitch Deck** | PDF/PPTX | Full investor presentation    | Restricted |
| **Technical Overview**  | PDF      | System architecture summary   | Public     |
| **Demo Day Slides**     | PPTX     | Soonami Cohort 8 presentation | Restricted |
| **One-Pager**           | PDF      | Executive summary single page | Public     |

### Documents

| Resource                   | Format | Description                      | Access                                                      |
| -------------------------- | ------ | -------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------- |
| **Executive Summary**      | PDF    | Investor-ready overview          | [View Online](../executive/investor-executive-summary)      |
| **12-Month Business Plan** | PDF    | Operational roadmap              | [View Online](../business/12-month-business-plan)           |
| **Early Spec & Q&A**       | PDF    | Plain-English technical overview | [View Online](../executive/early-development/early-spec-qa) |

---

## Technical Documentation

### Specifications

| Resource                 | Format  | Description                | Access                                                    |
| ------------------------ | ------- | -------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------- |
| **RKV-M Specifications** | PDF     | Interceptor platform specs | [View Online](../technical/hardware/rkv-m-specifications) |
| **ML Training Plan**     | PDF     | Model training methodology | [View Online](../technical/ml-training/ml-training-plan)  |
| **System Block Diagram** | PNG/SVG | High-level architecture    | Restricted                                                |

### Datasheets

| Resource               | Format | Description                      | Access      |
| ---------------------- | ------ | -------------------------------- | ----------- |
| **SkySnare Consumer**  | PDF    | Consumer product datasheet       | Coming Soon |
| **AeroNet Enterprise** | PDF    | Enterprise solution datasheet    | Coming Soon |
| **Edge Node Specs**    | PDF    | NVIDIA Jetson Orin configuration | Coming Soon |
| **Sensor Suite**       | PDF    | Detection system specifications  | Coming Soon |

---

## Templates & Forms

### Application Templates

| Resource                     | Format | Description                     | Access                                                               |
| ---------------------------- | ------ | ------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **CUAS Sandbox Application** | DOCX   | Canada DND application template | [View Draft](../business/applications/cuas-sandbox-2026-application) |
| **SBIR Phase I Template**    | DOCX   | Standard SBIR proposal format   | Coming Soon                                                          |
| **DASA Submission Template** | DOCX   | UK DASA proposal format         | Coming Soon                                                          |

### Operational Templates

| Resource                       | Format | Description                   | Access      |
| ------------------------------ | ------ | ----------------------------- | ----------- |
| **Mission Planning Checklist** | PDF    | Pre-flight checklist          | Coming Soon |
| **Incident Report Form**       | DOCX   | Post-engagement documentation | Coming Soon |
| **Maintenance Log**            | XLSX   | Equipment tracking template   | Coming Soon |

---

## Calendar Files

### ICS Downloads

Subscribe to project calendars for automatic sync:

| Calendar                      | Format | Description                  | Download    |
| ----------------------------- | ------ | ---------------------------- | ----------- |
| **Opportunities & Deadlines** | ICS    | Funding deadlines and events | Coming Soon |
| **Development Milestones**    | ICS    | Sprint and release schedule  | Coming Soon |
| **Team Meetings**             | ICS    | Recurring meeting schedule   | Coming Soon |

See [Project Calendar](../operations/calendar/project-calendar) for subscription
instructions.

---

## Reference Materials

### Standards & Compliance

| Resource                       | Format | Description                 | Access                                       |
| ------------------------------ | ------ | --------------------------- | -------------------------------------------- |
| **sUAS Program Documentation** | PDF    | DHS BCF-T-G-2 guide         | [View Online](./suas-program-documentation)  |
| **Compliance Framework**       | PDF    | Regulatory requirements     | [View Online](../legal/compliance-framework) |
| **FAA Part 107 Summary**       | PDF    | Drone operation regulations | External                                     |
| **ASTM F963 Overview**         | PDF    | Consumer safety standards   | External                                     |

### Industry Reports

| Resource                  | Format | Description          | Access     |
| ------------------------- | ------ | -------------------- | ---------- |
| **C-UAS Market Analysis** | PDF    | Industry landscape   | Restricted |
| **Competitor Matrix**     | XLSX   | Competitive analysis | Restricted |
| **Technology Roadmap**    | PDF    | Industry trends      | Restricted |

---

## Media Kit

### Logos & Branding

| Resource                  | Format  | Description           | Access      |
| ------------------------- | ------- | --------------------- | ----------- |
| **Phoenix Rooivalk Logo** | SVG/PNG | Primary logo files    | Coming Soon |
| **SkySnare Logo**         | SVG/PNG | Consumer brand logo   | Coming Soon |
| **AeroNet Logo**          | SVG/PNG | Enterprise brand logo | Coming Soon |
| **Brand Guidelines**      | PDF     | Usage and style guide | Coming Soon |

### Images & Diagrams

| Resource                        | Format  | Description               | Access      |
| ------------------------------- | ------- | ------------------------- | ----------- |
| **System Architecture Diagram** | PNG/SVG | Technical overview visual | Coming Soon |
| **Product Renders**             | PNG     | 3D product visualizations | Coming Soon |
| **Deployment Scenarios**        | PNG     | Use case illustrations    | Coming Soon |

---

## Video Resources

### Demonstrations

| Resource                | Duration | Description              | Access      |
| ----------------------- | -------- | ------------------------ | ----------- |
| **System Overview**     | 3 min    | Introduction video       | Coming Soon |
| **Technical Deep Dive** | 15 min   | Architecture walkthrough | Restricted  |
| **Demo Day Recording**  | 10 min   | Soonami presentation     | Restricted  |
| **Field Test Footage**  | 5 min    | Prototype testing        | Restricted  |

---

## Software & Tools

### Development Resources

| Resource                   | Format | Description           | Access      |
| -------------------------- | ------ | --------------------- | ----------- |
| **API Documentation**      | HTML   | Integration reference | Coming Soon |
| **SDK Package**            | ZIP    | Developer toolkit     | Restricted  |
| **Simulation Environment** | Docker | Testing sandbox       | Restricted  |

---

## How to Request Access

### Restricted Materials

For access to restricted materials:

1. **Email**: Contact project administrator
2. **Subject**: "Resource Access Request - [Resource Name]"
3. **Include**:
   - Your name and organization
   - Purpose for access
   - Specific resources needed

### NDA Requirements

Some materials require a signed Non-Disclosure Agreement:

- Investor pitch deck
- Technical specifications
- Competitive analysis
- Source code/SDK

---

## Download Instructions

### PDF Documents

1. Click the download link
2. Document opens in browser or downloads automatically
3. For restricted files, enter provided password

### Calendar Files (ICS)

1. Download the ICS file
2. Import into your calendar application:
   - **Google Calendar**: Settings > Import & Export
   - **Apple Calendar**: File > Import
   - **Outlook**: File > Open & Export > Import

### Large Files

Files over 100MB are hosted separately. Contact administrator for access
credentials.

---

## Version History

| Date     | Update                 | Affected Resources |
| -------- | ---------------------- | ------------------ |
| Nov 2025 | Initial release        | All documents      |
| Dec 2025 | CUAS application draft | Applications       |
| Q1 2026  | Datasheets added       | Technical docs     |

---

## Contact

For questions about resources or access:

| Type                    | Contact                         |
| ----------------------- | ------------------------------- |
| **General Inquiries**   | info@phoenixrooivalk.com        |
| **Technical Documents** | engineering@phoenixrooivalk.com |
| **Investor Materials**  | investors@phoenixrooivalk.com   |

---

_Resources are updated regularly. Check back for new materials. © 2025 Phoenix
Rooivalk. All rights reserved._
