apps/docs/docs/playbooks/demo-handover-checklist.mdx, before:

---
id: demo-handover-checklist
title: "Demo Handover Checklist: Software → Hardware"
sidebar_label: Demo Handover
difficulty: beginner
timeEstimate: 15
xpReward: 25
phase: ["seed"]
tags:
  - playbook
  - demo
  - handover
  - hardware
---

# Demo Handover Checklist

**What Jurie (Software) needs to provide to Pieter (Hardware) for the Pi Drone
Detector demo.**

> **Note:** Jurie is in Bela Bela, Pieter is in Cape Town - all handover is
> remote/electronic.

---

## Pre-Handover Status

| Item                  | Status         | Notes            |
| --------------------- | -------------- | ---------------- |
| YOLOv8n model trained | 🟡 In progress | Need ~600 images |
| Inference script      | ✅ Ready       | Python + OpenCV  |
| Pi 4 setup guide      | 📋 This doc    | See below        |
| Camera config         | ✅ Documented  | 640x480 @ 30fps  |

---

## 1. Remote File Delivery

### Download Package (Google Drive / OneDrive)

Jurie uploads to shared folder:

- [ ] `setup_pi_detector.sh` - One-click setup script
- [ ] `yolov8n_drone.onnx` - Model file (~12MB)
- [ ] `detect.py` - Inference script
- [ ] `requirements.txt` - Python dependencies
- [ ] `README.md` - Step-by-step instructions

### Direct Download on Pi

Pieter runs on the Pi:

```bash
# Download package from shared link
wget -O detector.zip "https://[shared-link]"
unzip detector.zip -d ~/
cd ~/detector
chmod +x setup_pi_detector.sh
./setup_pi_detector.sh
```

### Alternative: Git Clone (if repo is public)

```bash
git clone https://github.com/JustAGhosT/pi-drone-detector.git ~/detector
cd ~/detector
./setup.sh
```

---

## 2. Model Files

### Required Files

| File | Size | Location | Description |
|------|------|----------|-------------|
| `yolov8n_drone.pt` | ~6MB | `/home/pi/models/` | PyTorch weights |
| `yolov8n_drone.onnx` | ~12MB | `/home/pi/models/` | ONNX format (faster) |
| `labels.txt` | <1KB | `/home/pi/models/` | Class names |

### Model Info

```yaml
Model: YOLOv8n (nano)
Input: 640x480 RGB
Classes:
  - 0: drone
  - 1: bird
  - 2: aircraft
  - 3: helicopter
Confidence threshold: 0.5
NMS threshold: 0.45
```

---

## 3. Hardware Requirements

### Pieter Provides

- [ ] Raspberry Pi 4 (2GB+ RAM)
- [ ] Pi Camera Module (v2 or v3)
- [ ] microSD card (32GB+ Class 10)
- [ ] 5V 3A power supply (USB-C)
- [ ] (Optional) Active cooling fan
- [ ] (Optional) Enclosure/mount

### Jurie Verifies

- [ ] Camera ribbon cable connected correctly
- [ ] Camera enabled in raspi-config
- [ ] Sufficient storage space (>5GB free)

---

## 4. Software Dependencies

### Pre-installed on SD Card

```bash
# System
python3.11
libopencv-dev
libcamera-apps

# Python packages
ultralytics>=8.0.0
opencv-python>=4.8.0
numpy>=1.24.0
picamera2>=0.3.12
```

### Installation Script (if manual)

```bash
#!/bin/bash
# setup_pi_detector.sh

# Update system
sudo apt update && sudo apt upgrade -y

# Install dependencies
sudo apt install -y python3-pip python3-opencv libcamera-apps

# Install Python packages
pip3 install ultralytics opencv-python numpy picamera2

# Create directories
mkdir -p ~/models ~/detector ~/logs

# Download files from shared link (Jurie provides URL)
echo "Download model and scripts from shared Google Drive/OneDrive link"
echo "Place yolov8n_drone.onnx in ~/models/"
echo "Place detect.py in ~/detector/"

echo "Setup complete. Run: python3 ~/detector/detect.py"
```

---

## 5. Running the Demo

### Quick Start

```bash
# SSH into Pi or use terminal
cd ~/detector
python3 detect.py
```

### With Options

```bash
# Specify model and confidence
python3 detect.py --model ~/models/yolov8n_drone.onnx --conf 0.5

# Save output video
python3 detect.py --save-video ~/logs/demo_$(date +%Y%m%d).mp4

# Show preview (if display connected)
python3 detect.py --preview
```

### Expected Output

```
[INFO] Loading model: yolov8n_drone.onnx
[INFO] Camera initialized: 640x480 @ 30fps
[INFO] Starting detection loop...
[INFO] FPS: 15.2 | Detections: 0
[INFO] FPS: 14.8 | Detections: 1 (drone: 0.87)
[INFO] FPS: 15.1 | Detections: 1 (drone: 0.92)
```

---

## 6. Troubleshooting Guide

### Common Issues

| Problem | Likely Cause | Fix |
|---------|--------------|-----|
| "Camera not found" | Ribbon cable loose | Reseat cable, check raspi-config |
| "Model not found" | Wrong path | Check ~/models/ directory |
| Low FPS (<10) | Resolution too high | Use 640x480, not 1080p |
| No detections | Confidence too high | Lower --conf to 0.3 |
| Out of memory | Model too large | Use .onnx not .pt |

### Debug Mode

```bash
# Run with verbose logging
python3 detect.py --debug

# Check camera
libcamera-hello --list-cameras

# Check Python environment
python3 -c "import cv2; print(cv2.__version__)"
python3 -c "from ultralytics import YOLO; print('OK')"
```

---

## 7. Demo Day Checklist

### Before Demo (Jurie - Remote)

- [ ] Final model trained and tested
- [ ] Files uploaded to shared drive
- [ ] Video call scheduled with Pieter
- [ ] Available on WhatsApp for support

### Before Demo (Pieter - On-site)

- [ ] Pi 4 powered and booted
- [ ] Camera connected and working
- [ ] Software downloaded and running
- [ ] Training drones charged and ready
- [ ] Launcher prototype ready (if showing)

### During Demo

- [ ] Start detection script before flying
- [ ] Keep drone in camera field of view
- [ ] Monitor terminal for detection logs
- [ ] Record screen/output if needed
- [ ] Jurie on standby via WhatsApp

---

## 8. Remote Handover Meeting

### 15-minute video call (Google Meet / WhatsApp):

1. **Software status** (2 min)

   - Model version and accuracy
   - Any known issues

2. **Remote file transfer** (5 min)

   - Confirm download link works
   - Pieter downloads on Pi
   - Verify files in correct locations

3. **Screen share test** (5 min)

   - Pieter shares Pi terminal
   - Run detection script together
   - Coke can test: loop in front of camera - should NOT detect
   - Confirm FPS is 12-18

4. **Demo plan** (3 min)
   - Who controls what
   - Signal for "detection working"
   - Backup plan if issues

---

## 9. Remote Support Options

### During Setup

| Method          | Use Case                     | Response Time |
| --------------- | ---------------------------- | ------------- |
| WhatsApp text   | Quick questions              | Minutes       |
| WhatsApp call   | Troubleshooting              | Immediate     |
| Google Meet     | Screen share for complex fix | Schedule      |
| SSH (if set up) | Direct Pi access             | Immediate     |

### SSH Remote Access (Optional)

If Pieter sets up port forwarding or uses a service like Tailscale:

```bash
# Jurie can SSH directly to help
ssh pi@[pieter-pi-address]

# Or use Tailscale for easy VPN access
# https://tailscale.com/download/linux
```

---

## 10. Current Blockers for Handover

### Jurie Must Complete (Remote)

1. **Train model with drone images**

   - Need: ~200 images per class (drone, bird, aircraft)
   - From: Pieter's training drones + public datasets
   - ETA: [TBD - depends on training footage]

2. **Test model locally**

   - Simulate Pi 4 environment on desktop
   - Or: Buy own Pi 4 for remote testing

3. **Package software for download**
   - Upload to Google Drive / OneDrive
   - Create shareable download link
   - Include setup script + README

### Pieter Must Complete (On-site)

1. **Capture training footage**

   - Fly small quads, record video
   - Multiple angles, distances, backgrounds
   - Target: 200+ frames per drone
   - Upload to shared folder for Jurie

2. **Prepare demo hardware**

   - Pi 4 with camera mounted
   - Power supply
   - Internet connection for downloads
   - Test location identified

3. **Enable remote support (optional)**
   - Install Tailscale for SSH access
   - Or: Set up port forwarding

---

_Last Updated: January 8, 2026_

Commit message:

Add TFLite setup guide reference to demo handover checklist
Cross-reference the pi-drone-detector README for TFLite optimized
setup. Clarify two approaches: Ultralytics/ONNX for quick demo vs
TFLite for production (with Coral USB Accelerator support).

apps/docs/docs/playbooks/demo-handover-checklist.mdx, after:

---
id: demo-handover-checklist
title: "Demo Handover Checklist: Software → Hardware"
sidebar_label: Demo Handover
difficulty: beginner
timeEstimate: 15
xpReward: 25
phase: ["seed"]
tags:
  - playbook
  - demo
  - handover
  - hardware
---

# Demo Handover Checklist

**What Jurie (Software) needs to provide to Pieter (Hardware) for the Pi Drone
Detector demo.**

> **Note:** Jurie is in Bela Bela, Pieter is in Cape Town - all handover is
> remote/electronic.

---

## Pre-Handover Status

| Item                  | Status         | Notes            |
| --------------------- | -------------- | ---------------- |
| YOLOv8n model trained | 🟡 In progress | Need ~600 images |
| Inference script      | ✅ Ready       | Python + OpenCV  |
| Pi 4 setup guide      | 📋 This doc    | See below        |
| Camera config         | ✅ Documented  | 640x480 @ 30fps  |

---

## Setup Guides

Two approaches are available depending on demo timeline:

| Approach | Setup Time | FPS on Pi 4 | Best For |
|----------|------------|-------------|----------|
| **Ultralytics/ONNX** | 30 min | 12-18 FPS | Quick demo setup |
| **TFLite Optimized** | 1 hour | 5-8 FPS (25-35 with Coral) | Production deployment |

### Option A: Ultralytics/ONNX (This Guide)

Uses `ultralytics` package with ONNX export. Faster setup, slightly higher FPS on
CPU. Instructions below.

### Option B: TFLite Optimized

For production deployment or if using Coral USB Accelerator, see the full setup
guide: [`apps/pi-drone-detector/README.md`](/docs/pi-drone-detector)

Key benefits of TFLite:
- INT8 quantization (smaller model, ~6MB)
- Coral Edge TPU support (25-35 FPS)
- Custom drone scoring with coke can rejection heuristics

---

## 1. Remote File Delivery

### Download Package (Google Drive / OneDrive)

Jurie uploads to shared folder:

- [ ] `setup_pi_detector.sh` - One-click setup script
- [ ] `yolov8n_drone.onnx` - Model file (~12MB)
- [ ] `detect.py` - Inference script
- [ ] `requirements.txt` - Python dependencies
- [ ] `README.md` - Step-by-step instructions

### Direct Download on Pi

Pieter runs on the Pi:

```bash
# Download package from shared link
wget -O detector.zip "https://[shared-link]"
unzip detector.zip -d ~/
cd ~/detector
chmod +x setup_pi_detector.sh
./setup_pi_detector.sh
```

### Alternative: Git Clone (if repo is public)

```bash
git clone https://github.com/JustAGhosT/pi-drone-detector.git ~/detector
cd ~/detector
./setup.sh
```

---

## 2. Model Files

### Required Files

| File | Size | Location | Description |
|------|------|----------|-------------|
| `yolov8n_drone.pt` | ~6MB | `/home/pi/models/` | PyTorch weights |
| `yolov8n_drone.onnx` | ~12MB | `/home/pi/models/` | ONNX format (faster) |
| `labels.txt` | <1KB | `/home/pi/models/` | Class names |

### Model Info

```yaml
Model: YOLOv8n (nano)
Input: 640x480 RGB
Classes:
  - 0: drone
  - 1: bird
  - 2: aircraft
  - 3: helicopter
Confidence threshold: 0.5
NMS threshold: 0.45
```

---

## 3. Hardware Requirements

### Pieter Provides

- [ ] Raspberry Pi 4 (2GB+ RAM)
- [ ] Pi Camera Module (v2 or v3)
- [ ] microSD card (32GB+ Class 10)
- [ ] 5V 3A power supply (USB-C)
- [ ] (Optional) Active cooling fan
- [ ] (Optional) Enclosure/mount

### Jurie Verifies

- [ ] Camera ribbon cable connected correctly
- [ ] Camera enabled in raspi-config
- [ ] Sufficient storage space (>5GB free)

---

## 4. Software Dependencies

### Pre-installed on SD Card

```bash
# System
python3.11
libopencv-dev
libcamera-apps

# Python packages
ultralytics>=8.0.0
opencv-python>=4.8.0
numpy>=1.24.0
picamera2>=0.3.12
```

### Installation Script (if manual)

```bash
#!/bin/bash
# setup_pi_detector.sh

# Update system
sudo apt update && sudo apt upgrade -y

# Install dependencies
sudo apt install -y python3-pip python3-opencv libcamera-apps

# Install Python packages
pip3 install ultralytics opencv-python numpy picamera2

# Create directories
mkdir -p ~/models ~/detector ~/logs

# Download files from shared link (Jurie provides URL)
echo "Download model and scripts from shared Google Drive/OneDrive link"
echo "Place yolov8n_drone.onnx in ~/models/"
echo "Place detect.py in ~/detector/"

echo "Setup complete. Run: python3 ~/detector/detect.py"
```

---

## 5. Running the Demo

### Quick Start

```bash
# SSH into Pi or use terminal
cd ~/detector
python3 detect.py
```

### With Options

```bash
# Specify model and confidence
python3 detect.py --model ~/models/yolov8n_drone.onnx --conf 0.5

# Save output video
python3 detect.py --save-video ~/logs/demo_$(date +%Y%m%d).mp4

# Show preview (if display connected)
python3 detect.py --preview
```

### Expected Output

```
[INFO] Loading model: yolov8n_drone.onnx
[INFO] Camera initialized: 640x480 @ 30fps
[INFO] Starting detection loop...
[INFO] FPS: 15.2 | Detections: 0
[INFO] FPS: 14.8 | Detections: 1 (drone: 0.87)
[INFO] FPS: 15.1 | Detections: 1 (drone: 0.92)
```

---

## 6. Troubleshooting Guide

### Common Issues

| Problem | Likely Cause | Fix |
|---------|--------------|-----|
| "Camera not found" | Ribbon cable loose | Reseat cable, check raspi-config |
| "Model not found" | Wrong path | Check ~/models/ directory |
| Low FPS (<10) | Resolution too high | Use 640x480, not 1080p |
| No detections | Confidence too high | Lower --conf to 0.3 |
| Out of memory | Model too large | Use .onnx not .pt |

### Debug Mode

```bash
# Run with verbose logging
python3 detect.py --debug

# Check camera
libcamera-hello --list-cameras

# Check Python environment
python3 -c "import cv2; print(cv2.__version__)"
python3 -c "from ultralytics import YOLO; print('OK')"
```

---

## 7. Demo Day Checklist

### Before Demo (Jurie - Remote)

- [ ] Final model trained and tested
- [ ] Files uploaded to shared drive
- [ ] Video call scheduled with Pieter
- [ ] Available on WhatsApp for support

### Before Demo (Pieter - On-site)

- [ ] Pi 4 powered and booted
- [ ] Camera connected and working
- [ ] Software downloaded and running
- [ ] Training drones charged and ready
- [ ] Launcher prototype ready (if showing)

### During Demo

- [ ] Start detection script before flying
- [ ] Keep drone in camera field of view
- [ ] Monitor terminal for detection logs
- [ ] Record screen/output if needed
- [ ] Jurie on standby via WhatsApp

---

## 8. Remote Handover Meeting

### 15-minute video call (Google Meet / WhatsApp):

1. **Software status** (2 min)

   - Model version and accuracy
   - Any known issues

2. **Remote file transfer** (5 min)

   - Confirm download link works
   - Pieter downloads on Pi
   - Verify files in correct locations

3. **Screen share test** (5 min)

   - Pieter shares Pi terminal
   - Run detection script together
   - Coke can test: loop in front of camera - should NOT detect
   - Confirm FPS is 12-18

4. **Demo plan** (3 min)
   - Who controls what
   - Signal for "detection working"
   - Backup plan if issues

---

## 9. Remote Support Options

### During Setup

| Method          | Use Case                     | Response Time |
| --------------- | ---------------------------- | ------------- |
| WhatsApp text   | Quick questions              | Minutes       |
| WhatsApp call   | Troubleshooting              | Immediate     |
| Google Meet     | Screen share for complex fix | Schedule      |
| SSH (if set up) | Direct Pi access             | Immediate     |

### SSH Remote Access (Optional)

If Pieter sets up port forwarding or uses a service like Tailscale:

```bash
# Jurie can SSH directly to help
ssh pi@[pieter-pi-address]

# Or use Tailscale for easy VPN access
# https://tailscale.com/download/linux
```

---

## 10. Current Blockers for Handover

### Jurie Must Complete (Remote)

1. **Train model with drone images**

   - Need: ~200 images per class (drone, bird, aircraft)
   - From: Pieter's training drones + public datasets
   - ETA: [TBD - depends on training footage]

2. **Test model locally**

   - Simulate Pi 4 environment on desktop
   - Or: Buy own Pi 4 for remote testing

3. **Package software for download**
   - Upload to Google Drive / OneDrive
   - Create shareable download link
   - Include setup script + README

### Pieter Must Complete (On-site)

1. **Capture training footage**

   - Fly small quads, record video
   - Multiple angles, distances, backgrounds
   - Target: 200+ frames per drone
   - Upload to shared folder for Jurie

2. **Prepare demo hardware**

   - Pi 4 with camera mounted
   - Power supply
   - Internet connection for downloads
   - Test location identified

3. **Enable remote support (optional)**
   - Install Tailscale for SSH access
   - Or: Set up port forwarding

---

_Last Updated: January 8, 2026_
